Block Cipher and Stream Cipher are the methods used for converting the plain text into cipher text directly and belong to the family of symmetric key ciphers. The major difference between a block cipher and a stream cipher is that the block cipher encrypts and decrypts a block of the text at a time. On the other hand, stream cipher encrypts and decrypts the text by taking the one byte of the text at a time.
Block cipher technique involves encryption of one block of text at a time, i.e. singly. Similarly, decrypt the text by taking one block after another. In contrast, Stream cipher technique involves encryption and decryption of one byte of the text at a time. 
Block ciphers have a simple design and stream ciphers have complexity in their design. Stream ciphers use eight bits while block ciphers work with at least sixty four bits. 
Block ciphers rely on both confusion and diffusion while stream ciphers just use confusion. In block ciphers Reversing encrypted text is hard while this is not true in stream ciphers because they use XOR for the encryption which can be easily reversed to the plain text. 
Block Cipher takes a message and break it into a fixed size of blocks and converts one block of the message at an instant. For example, we have a message in plain text  STREET BY STREET  required to be encrypted. Using bock cipher ,  STREET  must be encrypted at first, followed by  BY  and finally at last  STREET . In actual practice, communication takes place only in bits. Therefore, STREET actually means the binary equivalent of ASCII character of STREET. Subsequently, any algorithm encrypts these; the resultant bits are transformed back into their ASCII equivalent. An evident problem regarding the usage of Block ciphers is repeating text, for which the same cipher is generated. Hence, it would give a hint to the cryptanalyst which makes it is easier to figure out the recurring strings of plain text. As a result, it can reveal the whole message. To overcome from this problem the chaining mode is used. In this technique, the preceding block of cipher text is mixed with the current block, so as to the cipher text vague, this avoids the recurring patterns of blocks with the same content. 
Stream Cipher typically encrypts one byte of the message at that moment instead of using blocks. Lets take an example, suppose the original message is  blue sky  in ASCII . When you convert these ASCII into equivalent binary values, it will give the output in zeros and ones form. For encryption and decryption, a pseudorandom bit generator is used in which a key and plain text are loaded. A pseudorandom bit generator creates a stream of 8-bit numbers that are seemingly random known as keystream. Now the key and plaintext are XORed.The XOR logic is simple to understand. XOR produces an output of one when one input is zero , and the other is one. The output is zero if either both the inputs are zero or both the inputs are one.